Western Vardalas wilds is considered to be one of the more civilised places of the region. Though there are settlements found all across the wildes, the western coast has four distinct nations that separate them from the rest of the wilds. The western coast, once you get past the mountain and hill ranges that separate them from the rest of the wilds, is flatter and more suitable for larger scaled agriculture, which has allowed larger interconnected nations to sprout here compared to the more scattered settlements and towns found further inlands. The four nations are Veldaria, Arganar, Valtoros and Frostgarde. In the past there used to be a smaller fifth nation, but that was conquered by Veldaria and most of that region has now fallen to ruins and been reclaimed by nature as the people moved further into the central nation.

The relations between the nations is pretty tense. The relations have always been strained here, but in our current day, Veldaria and Arganar are at open war. That being said, the war has been at a stalemate for the last couple of years, and the borders are just closed to one another, with several forts on each nation's border keeping watch. Frostgarde's relation with Veldaria is pretty good, as Frostgarde fears that if Arganar should win, then they would be next. Valtoros and Veldaria has a more strained relationship, as while not at open war, there are many that speculate that Valtoros could join Arganar in a pincer attack against Veldaria, however Arganar and Valtoros have a pretty bad relationship beforehand, so there is still much diplomatic work to be done for something like that to happen.

Veldaria is a Feudal Monarchy, where a single family has ruled for several centuries now. There are other noble houses that vye for power within the nation, but there are few who would seek to directly challenge the royal family, and none that would declare open opposition towards it. Rather they tend to fight over who should get to marry into the next heir of the royal family, or in general be in the best graces of them.

Valtoros is also a monarchy, however it is an Elective Monarchy. Due to their favourable position by lying in the south and having several trade routes to the southern parts of the continent, they have several rich noble families who all vye for power and have eligible heirs whenever the current monarch dies. It has a history of royal assassinations and frequent changes of which family sits at the throne, but they also have managed to keep enough stability within the nation to keep order. While there is much bad blood between the different noble families, few of them would see the nation go to civil war, especially with Veldaria next to them.

Arganar is a stratocracy, and in many ways is the biggest wildcard of the four nations. In general Arganar seems to have an ebb and flow on the different generals that rule the nation, where an aggressive ruler is often replaced by a more peaceful one, who is then later replaced by a more aggressive one. The current ruler and general is one of the more aggressive ones, and the one that declared war on Veldaria. While they had a lot of support by the military and population at first, they failed to get much ground during the initial push, and is now forced back into a stalemate with very similar borders and nomans grounds like there were before. They are still in power, though there are many rumours that flow both within the nation and outside of it that they'll be replaced any day now. Then again, those rumours have been floating around for quite some time without any changes.

Finally, there is Frostgarde to the north. The colder northern reaches of the north in the past used to just be several independent cities, towns and settlements that had an overall good relationship with one another, with some scuffles here and there, but when Arganar grew more powerful, Frostgarde saw the need to gather under a single banner and be prepared to defend themselves against a potential assault. Many years later, that hasn't happened, though Arganar has grown to be close to their borders, and relations are strained. If it wasn't for Veldaria in the south, many suspect that Frostgarde would've been assimilated by Arganar. Arganar is now considered a federation ruled by a council of representatives from the different cities and towns, and while they aren't as rich as the other nations in the region, they have built up a strong friendship with Veldaria due to their common interest in opposing Arganar expansion.

