Faulbay was once the seat of power of the old nation, but has now fallen completely into ruin. Most of the buildings were wooden that have completely decayed, but even the stone buildings have fallen into ruin or been scavenged and destroyed by brigands or the passage of time. Faulbay lies at the end of a long and narrow bay towards the ocean, with two rivers flowing from the mountains meeting not long before hitting the pay. On the eastern side of the bay is a long stretch of flat land while the western side is a tall cliff. On the end of this cliff sits the old residence of the ruling family, Castle Faulpeak, with the ruins of the settlements outside the castle walls.

## Important People
A lot of the people that have been brought on for this campaign have been selected not only due to their skills of their trade, but also for being hardy people that could at least hold their own in case of brigand attacks. Due to the prevalence of brigands, people like this was selected in order to not lose as many people early on in the campaign.

### Custodian Farley Kwurendagger
Custodian Farley Kwurendagger is the person in charge in place of Serathil, and is a dwarf often described as more beard than dwarf. They often wear a padded coat that hides most of their figure, however their head is covered in long hair and a massive beard, dark red in colour, with long, ornate and thick braids all over. They wear thick glasses that rest upon a big nose, making the nose and magnified eyes the most visible features of what's not hair. On their coat is a large, jewelled clan dagger, and they typically carry several books and scrolls on their person at all times.

They are very methodical and structured in how they work, and while they are a bit worried about how fast their young master is wishing to proceed in their plans, Farley is very happy to at least be away from the royal courts. They are still erring a lot on taking things slow and not rush the expansion, but they still wish to please their master and have a genuine wish to see this place restored to glory. They oversee most of the affairs that happen in Faulbay, organise efforts between the different people and is in many ways a defacto mayor of sorts.

### Innkeeper Leyara
Leyara is a middle aged half elf who runs the inn and tavern of the town, the Dusty Goose. She used to be a bounty hunter in the past, but took upon cooking when she got tired of the job and had earned enough to basically live however she wanted for the rest of her life. However she also started to feel a bit bored with a calm and quiet life, and when the Faulbay Campaign needed someone to keep a tavern and inn running to keep the people fed and sheltered, with the requirements needed she felt that maybe she could get a more balanced mix of cooking and excitement in her life.

She has a pixie-cut black hair, with several scars all over her body from her past. One of her eyes has a scar over it and is permanently closed due to it, and though she hasn't been in the bounty hunting trade for a while, she still has a very impressive physique suited for someone lithe and agile. She enjoyes to have shooting competitions with others in the town when possible, though most people have learned that they can't really win against Leyara and as such she rarely finds anyone to compete with anymore.

### Blacksmith Carlo Paroe
Carlo is an orc blacksmith, an older veteran from the military who retired not too long ago after receiving a wound to his leg that gives him a limp. He is still physically strong and skilled with all manners of weapons, but he became unable to keep up with the military. He was quickly recruited to the Faulbay campaign to handle all sorts of smithing jobs, be it maintenance of weapons and armour, or fixing and creating tools for the farming and building, or other metalwork in general. 

Carlo loves to smith and loves to fight. While he doesn't get to do much of the latter anymore, he has already made a name among the brigands who tried to attack the caravan he arrived on, and after he arrived there have been fewer attacks on the settlement, which everyone else is grateful for. When he's not making things needed for the settlement - which is admittedly most of the time - he enjoys trying to create weird and exotic weapons. He doesn't socialise that much, but he's still happy to talk when people approach him.

### Stockkeeper William and Raol
William and Raol are a married couple, two halflings who maintain and keep track of all the inventory and stock of the settlements, help to plan out what is needed for expansions, and both are very proficient crafters that can whip up things that the people need. William is muscular and tall for a halfling, with suntanned skin and slickback hair. He loves physical activity, and is very involved with the construction of new buildings in the settlement. Raol is more on the average side of height for halflings, and has a paler skin from being much more indoors. He isn't as involved with the physical labour of the settlement, but he enjoys to just create a lot of different tools, gadgets and doodads, so the town is still very grateful for him as well. While a lot of the tools and materials needed is provided by Serathil, they also create things that can be sold to people who might want something out of the usual, and in many ways function as a general store.

### Head Farmer Bee
Bee is an Amurrun who is in charge of the agricultural affairs. She doesn't talk much at all, and when she does it's typically just in short phrases or even just single words, but she doesn't seem to be asocial either, just less outspoken. She is relatively young, but she has already proven herself with her skills in both farming and defending herself, and the other farmers with her seem to be very confident that future harvests should be very good.
She is tall, has tiger like pattern to her fur, and is often adorned with simple hempen clothing and a straw hat.

### Captain of the Guards, Harold
Harold is a middle aged human, who manages the security of the settlement, seems to be in a constant state of stress. His hair seems to have aged much faster than the rest of him, having very salty and peppery short hair with a receeding hairline, and always has a worried look on his face. He is very skilled as a fighter, but he seems to be a bit over his head with managing the organisation of defences, both reactively and proactively. They have been able to fend of different attacks so far, and after Carlo arrived it has slowed down a bit, but he is the one who requested some extra hands to help out with tasks outside of defending the settlements.

When not on duty, he loves to drink and gamble, and is usually found in the Dusty Goose trying to convince others to join him for dice or card games.

### Historian, Wizard, Alchemist, Madman Jodge
Jodge is a goblin wizard and alchemist from the Veldarian Arcane Academy. Farley requested someone who could aid in both magical tasks and ideally someone who could help with documenting historical funds, and was sent out Jodge. Jodge is tiny for a goblin, and is always wearing a robe with too many pouches that always seem to be filled to the brim. They wear goggles with gems for sockets, one yellow and the other turquoise, and has a stereotypical tattered wizard hat on them. They love experimenting with both magic and alchemy. He is not quite what Farley had expected, but he has still proven useful in providing potions and healing for the people, even curing some diseases. However people still seem scared to approach Jodge for this, as his treatments are apparently very painful, even if they are effective.

Jodge is pretty much always holed up in his little lodge he requested. He spends his time here experimenting with alchemy and magic and most of the time there is some form of smoke and steam in various colours leaking out of the lodge.