Faulbay Peninsula is what the western peninsula in Veldaria has become known as. In the past it was its own small nation, but it was annexed around two and a half centuries ago by Veldaria. However, instead of taking over the Peninsula, the rulers were sacked and the people were migrated to mainland Veldaria, and the peninsula was slowly consumed by nature and eventually became a haven for wild beasts, brigands and pirates. The official reasons given in the history books and by officials is that the land was already so wild and consumed by the beasts and brigands, had poor soil and had suffered under a cruel leader, so that by the time they annexed it out of benevolence they moved the people away from the peninsula towards the safer mainlands. However the true reason is that the ruler wasn't cruel at all - however they were very absent - but instead they were someone that dabbled in dark, forbidden knowledge that the rulers of Veldaria sought as a major threat, maybe to the world, but primarily just they were scared of magical catastrophes on their own borders that would weaken their grip on the region as a whole. The ruler and their families were sacked and executed, people with knowledge of the doings of the family were executed or placed in prison, and the rest of the populace were forcefully moved. Anyone who didn't peacefully comply would be taken care of too, and the whole history was quickly wiped. The people who to this day know the real truth are either in power with no personal interest in sharing it, or are too scared to share it out of fear of execution. In order to maintain the order and preservation of the secrets, a Guardian of Faulbay was appointed to one of the noble families in Haldreth.

However the actual cause of the Guardian of Faulbay also got a bit lost to time, since the secrets were kept almost too well. And in current times, through a lot of bureaucratic digging and sleuthing, an otherwise non-prominent member of the  Norwen Family, Serathil Norwen, has managed to discover and argue his case that he is the rightful heir to the title of Guardian of Faulbay. However he wasn't able to uncover the true nature of the title, but being young and ambitious and wishing to make something out of his name, he sees this as an opportunity to restore Faulbay and reclaim the peninsula under his rule.

He is currently managing a campaign in order to rebuild and reclaim Faulbay and surrounding areas. However he quickly met upon more resistance than he expected, not only from the wild nature of the peninsula itself, but from other noble families. Unbeknownst to Serathil, there are other families and entities who are still aware of what the title of Guardian of Faulbay actually entails, and he is now engaged in a political battle in trying to retain his rights to his endeavour. In place, he has appointed his trusted custodian to manage the practical details of the restoration.