it is uncertain what existed before the current time, but myths and legends say that the known multiverse was created when The Archtrinity woke up. The Archtrinity is considered to be the ultimate authority over the multiverse, but this is also disputed because as far as anyone know they don't directly interfere in any of the affairs in any of the planes, and worshippers of them receive no divine benefits.
It is also disputed exactly what The Archtrinity is. Is it a single entity with three aspects? Three entities in a single union? Three entirely separate entities? No one knows for sure, and it is said that even the deities themselves don't know. However most are in agreement upon what the three different aspects are.
One is said to be the aspect of Aether; of time and space itself. One is said to be the aspect of Matter; all things physical in the multiverse. The last is said to be the Aspect of Blood; the source of all that lives in the multiverse, though some also call them the Aspect of Life.

Legends go that when The Archtrinity woke up, everything was created in an instant, however it was an unorganised mess. The Archtrinity itself knew that it needed to exert control over this creation, and as such created several powerful entities to organise and separate the different essences and aspects of this primordial blend into distinct planes.

These entities, known as the primordials, would each have a leader, a Primordial Deity, to lead them. However the primordials, including the deities, would become so affected by the energies from the Archtrinity that in essence they all became completely distinct beings from one another. These realms would later become known as the Outer Planes. In the metaphysical center of these planes would be a swirling mass of unmoulded souls, its current potential unknown, only watched over by an entity simply called The Watcher.

The major planes include the following:
Hell, a place of infernal law and evil order, where the primordials were turned into devils, and ruled by INSERT_HELL_RULER, who turned these energies into a well oiled machine with order, hierarchy and rules. Each layer serves as for a specific purpose, be it the protective wall of the first layer, or the treasury and vaults layer, the training layer and so on.

A similar plane of evil energies would form into Abaddon, an eternally vast plane of waste, decay, rot, death and destruction. Ruled by the Horsemen, whose sole goal is the destruction of all life and existence itself.

The Outer Rifts is said to have been forced when the primordials who were gathering the most violent and chaotic of energies. However some say that the Primordial Deity went so mad with power that they would try to break free from existence, tearing through the walls of reality itself, further digging the infinite rifts of the Abyss.

However there were not only unholy energies in this primordial meld, there were also holy and good energies. Some of these would form into the vast wilds of Elysium, where those who seek passion and self improvement would congregate in order to further themselves towards perfection.

Heaven is the opposite of hell, a well oiled, orderly machine, with it being a massive mountain with different layers the further up the mountain one goes with different purposes, ruled by the enigmatic archons, but instead of ruling with tyranny and oppression, would rule with a compassionate - if strict - law.

Then there is Nirvana, a place of calm, relaxation and recovery. Plane of various calming biomes. more to be told I guess

In between all these planes is the chaotic maelstrom, the chaotic energies left over that would or could not be sorted into distinct planes would simply float in between. Though with enough power one can manifest pockets of more or less stable islands and havens, most of the plane is chaotic and transient.

The floating ball of souls and potentials, only overlooked by an entity called the Watcher. The Watcher would not do anything with these souls, and other entities would get curious about it. Over eons of establishment, the different planes would become affiliated in various ways with one another, however since there were no inhabitants of the souls, no one had felt any reason to contact them either. But over enough time, curiosity would lead to the first investigations of souls. Denizens of hell were the first to see what the souls were and could do and the realisation that souls would empower them lead to a big competition over the access to souls. The Watcher would not do anything, still only observing, however they would report what they saw to the Archtrinity. Fearing that all the work would be undone if the war over souls went on, they would in one of their few actions of intervention separate the source of souls into its own isolated realm. Following this, they would manifest another deity simply known as the Judge, who would arbitrate the power of souls, to ensure that the balance would not be ruined. For eons, the different planes would petition for why they deserved souls to be sent to their plane.

However the Judge simply saw no fair way for they themselves to distribute them, as no single entity could or should be an arbitor of that. They would themselves petition The Archtrinity for a way for the souls to get their own chance to choose their path. In response, The Architect would be manifested, a deity to forge a plane for the souls themselves to live in while they would figure out their on paths. However this was not a simple choice for the Architect. They first needed materials to work with, and they would forge the elemental planes, raw sources of pure material. But this was not enough. In order for the souls to be given a choice, they would also need to have free will and the possiblity to understand what they were actually up against, without just giving them a list to choose from. They would need to experience their own life in order to realise where their soul truly belonged. Asking denizens from each plane to infuse their hammer with their energies, they would forge a whole new plane. However this first plane was too intense, too wild, too.. unstructured. This world was too much akin to the primordial meld that everything originated from. The souls here were already too affected by the choices they were meant to learn and discover. However it was a good first attempt for The First World.